---
title: Celo L1 → Celo L2 Operator Guide
description: How to migrate Celo nodes from L1 to L2
---


## Overview

:::warning
The information in this guide is subject to change.
:::

In the Celo L2 transition we are planning to migrate the historical Celo data into the Celo L2 node so that all blocks, transactions, logs and receipts will be accessible within the Celo L2 node.

At the transition point operators will need to shut down their Celo nodes and run a migration script on the datadir to convert it to a form that can be run with a Celo L2 node. Then the Celo L2 node can be run with the converted datadir. Operators that wish to full sync or run an archive node will need to start from a migrated datadir, because archive or full sync nodes will require the full state at the transition point in order to continue applying transactions. Otherwise operators will be able to start a Celo L2 node and snap sync without a migrated datadir.

In order to simplify the task of maintaining the Celo L2 node we are planning to not include any old execution logic in Celo L2, however RPC calls that invoke execution for pre-transition blocks will still be supported by proxying from the Celo L2 node to an archive Celo node. So operators that wish to run full archive nodes will now need to run both a Celo node and a Celo L2 node, and since the Celo L2 node does include the full chain history those operators will need to start with roughly double the storage they currently require for an archive Celo node.

## Operation instructions

### Running a fullnode on the Dango testnet (migration block - 24940101)

The new node consists of 3 services op-geth (the execution client), op-node (the consensus client) and the eigenda-proxy (provides offchain data availability).
The op-node service connects to a p2p network of other op-node instances through which the sequencer distributes new blocks, it also has a direct connection to its op-geth instance to which it forwards received blocks for execution and, finally, it connects to the eigenda-proxy which acts as a gateway to the data availability layer.

:::note
Note the instructions below bind services to all interfaces (0.0.0.0) and op-geth uses a vhosts value of ‘*’ which is useful in a test/debug environment, however you may want to change that when running production code.
The instructions also  assume that all services are run on the same machine such that op-node can access op-geth and eigenda-proxy via localhost.
If that is not the case then you will need to configure the following op node flags appropriately. You will also need to copy the jwtsecret generated by op-geth at `<path-to-your-datadir>/geth/jwtsecret` to a location where the op-node process can access it. 
:::

op-node updated networking flags:

```bash
--l2=<your-public-op-geth-auth-rpc-addr>
--l2.jwt-secret=<location-of-copied-jwt-secret>
--plasma.da-server=<your-public-eigenda-proxy-address>
````

#### Running op-geth

The op-geth service should be started before the op-node service, because the op-node service will shutdown after a few seconds if it cannot connect to its corresponding op-geth instance.

Download and extract the migrated chaindata:

:::note
Note that this chaindata is from a fullnode, so it lacks historical states, and therefore nodes using it will not be able to perform RPC actions that rely on state for blocks prior to the migration block.
:::

```bash
wget https://storage.googleapis.com/cel2-rollup-files/dango/dango-migrated-datadir.tar.zst
tar -xvf dango-migrated-datadir.tar.zst
```

Position it correctly under a datadir:

```bash
mkdir -p <your-datadir-name>/geth
mv chaindata <your-datadir-name>/geth
```

Clone the celo op-geth repo and build op-geth:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/celo-org/op-geth.git
cd op-geth
git checkout badaf7f297762fbda117bc654b744e74a0ad6fe1
make geth
```

Run op-geth (note `--datadir` flag needs replacing with actual path to datadir):


```bash
./build/bin/geth \
  --datadir=<your-datadir-path> \
  --gcmode=archive \
  --syncmode=full \
  --authrpc.port=8551 \
  --authrpc.addr=0.0.0.0 \
  --authrpc.vhosts='*' \
  --http \
  --http.addr=0.0.0.0 \
  --http.port=8545 \
  --http.vhosts='*' \
  --http.api=eth,net,web3,debug,txpool,engine,admin \
  --ws \
  --ws.port=8545 \
  --ws.addr=0.0.0.0 \
  --ws.api=eth,net,web3,debug,txpool,engine \
  --rollup.sequencerhttp=https://forno.dango.celo-testnet.org \
  --rollup.disabletxpoolgossip=true \
  --rollup.halt=major \
  --bootnodes="" \
  --nodiscover
```

#### Running eigenda-proxy

Clone the repo and build the proxy:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Layr-Labs/eigenda-proxy.git
cd eigenda-proxy
git checkout v1.2.0
make
```

Download and validate required g1 files (these files are part of the eigenda kzg trusted setup), see [https://github.com/Layr-Labs/rust-kzg-bn254](https://github.com/Layr-Labs/rust-kzg-bn254):

```bash
mkdir eigenda-resources
( cd eigenda-resources
wget \
https://srs-mainnet.s3.amazonaws.com/kzg/g1.point \
https://srs-mainnet.s3.amazonaws.com/kzg/g2.point.powerOf2 \
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Layr-Labs/eigenda-operator-setup/master/resources/srssha256sums.txt
sha256sum -c srssha256sums.txt )
```

Generate a private key for your eigenda proxy instance; you will need `cast` (part of `foundry`) and `jq` for this, see [Install Foundry](https://book.getfoundry.sh/getting-started/installation) & [Download jq](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/download/):

```bash
cast wallet new -j | jq -r '.[0].private_key' | tail -c 3 > eigenda-priv-key.txt
```

Run the proxy:

```bash
./bin/eigenda-proxy \
  --addr=0.0.0.0 \
  --port=4242 \
  --eigenda-disperser-rpc=disperser-holesky.eigenda.xyz:443 \
  --eigenda-g1-path=eigenda-resources/g1.point \
  --eigenda-g2-tau-path=eigenda-resources/g2.point.powerOf2 \
  --eigenda-disable-tls=false \
  --eigenda-signer-private-key-hex `cat eigenda-priv-key.txt`
```

#### Running op-node

Clone the celo optimism repo and build op-node:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/celo-org/optimism.git
cd optimism/op-node
git checkout 42f2a5bbb7218c0828a996c48ad6bceb1e5f561a
make op-node
```

Download the rollup config file:

```bash
wget https://storage.googleapis.com/cel2-rollup-files/dango/rollup.json
```

Run op-node (note `--l2.jwt-secret` flag needs updating with the path to your op-geth datadir):

```bash
./bin/op-node \
  --l1=https://ethereum-holesky-rpc.publicnode.com \
  --l1.beacon=https://ethereum-holesky-beacon-api.publicnode.com \
  --l1.trustrpc=true \
  --l2=http://localhost:8551 \
  --l2.jwt-secret=<your-datdair-path>/geth/jwtsecret \
  --rollup.load-protocol-versions=true \
  --rollup.config=rollup.json \
  --verifier.l1-confs=4 \
  --p2p.advertise.ip 127.0.0.1 \
  --p2p.listen.tcp=9222 \
  --p2p.listen.udp=9222 \
  --p2p.priv.path=op-node_p2p_priv.txt \
  --p2p.static=\
/ip4/34.19.9.48/tcp/9222/p2p/16Uiu2HAmM4Waw3Qmw9eFjvLbPzNUSaNvdD91RzodwxDzTXCM3Rp1,\
/ip4/34.83.14.89/tcp/9222/p2p/16Uiu2HAkwGzuYEzVY7CXoN44BnfUiZWe92TMU1dJesbAi4CYGQFS,\
/ip4/34.19.27.0/tcp/9222/p2p/16Uiu2HAmSf7FE4FXCy6ks5VPjX2Vdo21N9H3PQk7H7T8HbDMqEB8,\
/ip4/34.82.212.175/tcp/9222/p2p/16Uiu2HAm2xo9mPhbMW9eAzjLMjp6JFEa1gijWu2CsBpWEqVWh7Kg \
  --plasma.enabled=true \
  --plasma.da-server=http://127.0.0.1:4242 \
  --plasma.da-service=true \
  --plasma.verify-on-read=false
```

### Migrating the L1 data (for illustrative and testing purposes)

:::note
Note that the instructions that follow allow you to perform a migration for testing purposes.
For the Dango testnet you must use the migrated datadir that we provide. For future testnets we will support migrating your own datadir.
:::

Checkout the celo optimism repo and run make build, this will take a few minutes.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/celo-org/optimism.git
cd optimism
make build
```

#### Generate the l2 allocs file

This step generates the allocs file which defines the state modifications that occur at the transition point from L1 to L2. It is a required input for the migration process.

```bash
(cd packages/contracts-bedrock &&
CONTRACT_ADDRESSES_PATH=../../op-chain-ops/cmd/celo-migrate/testdata/deployment-l1-holesky.json \
DEPLOY_CONFIG_PATH=../../op-chain-ops/cmd/celo-migrate/testdata/deploy-config-holesky-alfajores.json \
STATE_DUMP_PATH=../../op-chain-ops/cmd/celo-migrate/testdata/l2-allocs-alfajores.json \
forge script ./scripts/L2Genesis.s.sol:L2Genesis \
--sig 'runWithStateDump()')
```

#### Run the migration

You will be able to run an instance of op-geth with the migrated datadir but we don't have a sequencer deployed for this config and there is no agreed-upon block to migrate at, so there is no scope for receiving new blocks or being part of a network with this setup. However you will be able to test the RPC API.

Build the tool:

```bash
cd op-chain-ops
make celo-migrate
```

And then run the migration with the next command, you will need to substitute the following 2 fields:

- `<old-datadir>` refers to the datadir of the node you're migrating, note the node must be stopped in order for the migration to work correctly.
- `<new-datadir>` refers to the datadir that you will use for the op-geth node.

:::note
Note that migration will take about 15 minutes to complete.
:::

```bash
./bin/celo-migrate full \
--old-db=<old-datadir>/celo/chaindata \
--new-db=<new-datadir>/geth/chaindata \
--deploy-config=cmd/celo-migrate/testdata/deploy-config-holesky-alfajores.json \
--l1-deployments=cmd/celo-migrate/testdata/deployment-l1-holesky.json \
--l1-rpc=https://ethereum-holesky-rpc.publicnode.com \
--l2-allocs=cmd/celo-migrate/testdata/l2-allocs-alfajores.json \
--outfile.rollup-config=rollup-config.json
```

#### Run op-geth on migrated datadir

Checkout the celo op-geth repo and build geth:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/celo-org/op-geth.git
cd op-geth
make geth
```

Then run the node on the migrated datadir with your choice of flags, for example an indexer could use:

```bash
build/bin/geth \
--datadir=<new-datadir> \
--syncmode=full \
--gcmode=archive \
--snapshot=true \
--http \
--http.api=eth,net,web3,debug,txpool,engine
```

Note that for the actual deployment you will need to run an instance of op-node, which will communicate with the sequencer and your op-geth instance, but since we currently have no publicly available sequencer there is no reason to run it now.

### Fullnode with full sync

Start the Celo L2 execution client with a fully synced and migrated Celo datadir.

### Fullnode with snap sync

Start the Celo L2 execution client with an empty datadir.

### Archive node with support for execution (tracing, calls, gas estimation …)

- Start Celo node with fully synced datadir in archive mode.
- Start the Celo L2 execution client with a fully synced and migrated Celo datadir and additionally provide a flag with the RPC API address of the Celo node (this flag will be used to proxy any requests needing execution to the Celo node)

## A history of Celo block structure

Celo started as a fork of go-ethereum but initially made some significant changes to the structure of headers and blocks because it was operating with a proof of stake consensus mechanism.

At the outset Celo blocks lacked the following fields that ethereum blocks had, they were:

- sha3Uncles
- uncles
- difficulty
- gasLimit (the gasLimit was defined by a contract and so had to be retrieved from state)
- mixHash
- nonce

Later in the [Espresso hardfork](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-blockchain/releases/tag/v1.5.0) we introduced dynamic fee transactions but didn’t introduce the baseFeePerGas field on the block header, similar to gasLimit the baseFeePerGas was also retrieved from state via a contract call.

Lacking these fields harmed our compatibility with ethereum tooling (For example ethers.js would crash when trying to work with our blocks) so in our [1.7.0 release](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-blockchain/releases/tag/v1.7.0) we started amending blocks returned over the RPC API by adding gasLimit and baseFeePerGas, however these fields could only be reliably returned by archive nodes since they needed to be looked up in the state, non archive nodes would only be able to return these fields for the most recent 128 blocks.

So further to that in the [Gingerbread hardfork](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-blockchain/releases/tag/v1.8.0) (block 21616000) we added all the fields listed above plus baseFeePerGas to our internal block representation to bring our future blocks into alignment with ethereum. We also added a constant difficulty field of 0x0 to all pre-gingerbread RPC API block responses.

Unfortunately some tooling was still facing problems correctly retrieving the gasLimit for pre-gingerbread blocks so in our [1.8.1 release](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-blockchain/releases/tag/v1.8.1) we hardcoded the historical gas limits for mainnet and our testnets alfajores and baklava, so that all blocks on non archive nodes could correctly and consistently return the correct gasLimit. This was possible since the gasLimit had only been changed a handful of times since genesis.

Celo also added the following fields to block bodies

- randomness
- epochSnarkData

As additions they didn’t damage compatibility at the RPC API level, (API clients would generally ignore them)  but in the transition to Celo L2 we plan to remove these fields because they will no longer be needed.

In the transition to Celo L2 we decided to try to improve the situation for our historical blocks with respect to RPC API compatibility by returning all post-gingerbread fields for all blocks. So pre-gingerbread and post-gingerbread blocks retrieved from the Celo L2 RPC API should look the same with the exception of baseFeePerGas which for now we are planning to simply not return for pre-gingerbread blocks.

## Post Celo L2 Block Structure

Going forward, blocks occurring after the transition point will gain an extra field, parentBeaconBlockRoot, which will bring our block structure fully up to date with ethereum’s block structure. 

As ethereum evolves in the time before we make the transition to Celo L2 we could end up with additional fields being added to the Post Celo L2 Block Structure, and this document will be updated accordingly.

## RPC API diffs

The diffs here show how the responses for historical blocks or transactions will change going from Celo to Celo L2, so added lines are things that have been added by Celo L2 and removed lines are things that were returned from Celo but will no longer be returned.

### Blocks

#### Pre-Gingerbread hardfork block

The new representation will lack the no longer needed randomness and epochSnarkData fields and gain sha3Uncles, uncles, mixHash and nonce.

Note that baseFeePerGas is not present at all because that value was served from state in celo-blockchain up until the gingerbread fork and so isn’t present after state has been pruned. Currently we don’t have any plan to make this field available in pre-gingerbread blocks on Celo L2.

Note that the size will be different because of the missing epochSnarkData and randomness fields and also the underlying rlp datastructure in Celo L2 differs from the rlp datastructure in Celo.

```diff
 "result" : {
    "difficulty" : "0x0",
-   "epochSnarkData" : null,
    "extraData" : "0xd9830...58080",
    "gasLimit" : "0x1312d00",
    "gasUsed" : "0x9a972",
    "hash" : "0xffb7d0446304b765c125381d8b2a37fbf0a5059f82c838cc002144e8fe8905cc",
    "logsBloom" : "0x00000...00000",
    "miner" : "0x0f5640bd556b0be19262d1817b213ddb3424d91d",
+   "mixHash" : "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
+   "nonce" : "0x0000000000000000",
    "number" : "0xb8d",
    "parentHash" : "0x6ff6382d2c5a8f64f69d0832fc9dc8bf291e9b89206eee51c9a0c38859b26c70",
-   "randomness" : {
-      "committed" : "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
-      "revealed" : "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
-   },
    "receiptsRoot" : "0x40eccc03a5ac54b456085a3e6bff9531757bbfa1b4914c8cbb38e1ea34cfd0f4",
-   "size" : "0xeab",
+   "sha3Uncles" : "0x1dcc4de8dec75d7aab85b567b6ccd41ad312451b948a7413f0a142fd40d49347",
+   "size" : "0xe65",
    "stateRoot" : "0x13d16289a1d51a0e530c17bc3565f300e67b00a522ec9391f1c5e8dea935efb9",
    "timestamp" : "0x5ea0a71b",
    "totalDifficulty" : "0xb8e",
    "transactions" : [
       "0x26a54dbc310f972b9604b2485dcab6c0000ec4f1ddee63f0830ea45be1732b3e"
    ],
    "transactionsRoot" : "0x21148321055f8ef3cb99fa6f45236873b0ebcec61e71f56fa736d6e810ce8149",
+   "uncles" : []
 }
 ```

#### Post-Gingerbread hardfork, pre Celo L2 block

In this case the new representation will lack the no longer needed randomness and epochSnarkData fields.

Note that size will be different, because of those missing fields and also because the underlying rlp datastructure in Celo L2 differs from the rlp datastructure in Celo.

```diff
 {
    "baseFeePerGas" : "0x12a05f200",
    "difficulty" : "0x0",
-   "epochSnarkData" : null,
    "extraData" : "0xd9830...e8080",
    "gasLimit" : "0x2faf080",
    "gasUsed" : "0xc6324",
    "hash" : "0x0788d066c9ec5f9be68e4c5ae3b0b21ac5117397f7ded16681173a822dd5d0ac",
    "logsBloom" : "0x00000...40000",
    "miner" : "0x0cdf34e216dab593f00a95b2a4aab735a1b421fc",
    "mixHash" : "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "nonce" : "0x0000000000000000",
    "number" : "0x186f055",
    "parentHash" : "0xb78d715b3259307f5a4b666a37f40c6e78c492e766c76890738c09560ae63d8e",
-   "randomness" : {
-      "committed" : "0xeee08bdeb9a5d66a46622f71ada9caef674cbf95995622d0baf5b02fd6d3a4bc",
-      "revealed" : "0x4ce6d0a061e32a493369ab843fdb3aad1ef8fcc6f5538bc21b67e7e31c8ac94d"
-   },
    "receiptsRoot" : "0x2d2b08dc1bfd4dd6b869d689de58e1e84599182391d097576dfc173df4e73372",
    "sha3Uncles" : "0x1dcc4de8dec75d7aab85b567b6ccd41ad312451b948a7413f0a142fd40d49347",
-   "size" : "0x93e",
+   "size" : "0x8e4",
    "stateRoot" : "0x6032db46a5f98d29363a3ae8fdf4372478585412b09b25daea09f767948d95ba",
    "timestamp" : "0x6644a17d",
    "totalDifficulty" : "0x186f056",
    "transactions" : [
       "0xa1a376697cf567f9aaf8d0ebc55e0dbbaf38f1176371da232f2d18242abc6945",
       "0x4e40948c406bff9ec14c1191c644df3333d623af821f649e89ca20b0b0a822cf",
       "0x030a8962883a822c633f4c7f637730cc38ae950819e59bc32ace21275913dcf8",
       "0x515f367706a440dbb2e1f28a765563c0cc6f3b4998340bd681a64467e9df0d25"
    ],
    "transactionsRoot" : "0x330816f861032e379a345d616411ea51e7dadf379d5ae0ebf0b6a92af303070c",
    "uncles" : []
 }
```

### Transactions

See this page for a summary of transaction types in Celo.

At genesis type 0 transactions on Celo contained 3 extra fields, those were feeCurrency, gatewayFee and gatewayFeeRecipient. These extra fields rendered Celo transactions incompatible with any existing ethereum wallets. To mitigate this and allow use of existing ethereum wallets we extended the definition of type 0 transactions to support the original ethereum transaction format (I.E without the 3 extra fields).

Since it was valid for the celo type 0 transaction to not set the three extra fields in order to distinguish between the two forms of type 0 transaction an extra field (ethCompatible) was added to RPC API responses for type 0 transactions.

Historically we would return these 3 extra fields and ethCompatible on RPC API responses for all transaction types. But this was leading to some confusion since those fields were only relevant for some transaction types.

On our current master branch we have updated the RPC API to omit feeCurrency, gatewayFee, gatewayFeeRecipient and ethCompatible if they are unset and to ensure that ethCompatible is set on all type 0 transactions.

So the mechanism that to determine the specific type of transaction from the RPC response is to:
First consult the type field, if that is non 0 then you are done.
If type is 0 then consult ethCompatible to determine if this transaction has the 3 extra fields.

Transitioning to Celo L2 should have a minimal impact on transaction responses over the RPC API, the Celo L2 node will additionally return chainId for type 0 transactions and yParity for non 0 transaction types.

Note that the gatewayFee and gatewayFeeRecipient fields were never used, so now that we are omitting these unset fields, they will never be returned from either a Celo node or a Celo L2 node.

#### Type 0 eth compatible

```diff
 {
    "blockHash" : "0x06613bb2a5c75748035e20c06c577669cd4d78f9a1d36ae79eb26ce72dda9c18",
    "blockNumber" : "0x16b8f4a",
    "ethCompatible" : true,
+   "chainId" : "0xaef3",
    "from" : "0x994532b8f186949d7217d7b843509c19e78b9584",
    "gas" : "0xa5c6",
    "gasPrice" : "0x2540be400",
    "hash" : "0xe152376f4b2d3a81f3631cf5830fb820118de3cb3ef5ddb068978829c2712b08",
    "input" : "0x3798c...e3083",
    "nonce" : "0x2b714",
    "r" : "0x1cbba1e5b0c6d9155a56f7f690d59ca46a7deab2bc6aefa4fe89542dbc779c5f",
    "s" : "0x66aff5220a9228352bee2a7ac07e9c723bc6bc00311d02338d15ed106b07a608",
    "to" : "0x3d00dea966314e47ac3d4acd2f00121351cec1c5",
    "transactionIndex" : "0x0",
    "type" : "0x0",
    "v" : "0x15e09",
    "value" : "0x0"
 }
```

#### Type 0 not eth compatible with no fee currency

```diff
 {
    "blockHash" : "0x11d497cf96f94c62db173e27a9aebe7db559d9675e58a9ac268c5c934bffe441",
    "blockNumber" : "0x16b8efc",
    "ethCompatible" : false,
+   "chainId" : "0xaef3",
    "from" : "0x473a3be7c2a42452ed0b521614b3b76bc59d2d1d",
    "gas" : "0x8160d",
    "gasPrice" : "0x1bf08eb00",
    "hash" : "0x6ba6fb0f75a38112bada3a8d3e789d9a5fdce4ea11f35a7ef8b550bcc356d202",
    "input" : "0x80e50...00000",
    "nonce" : "0x72ce1",
    "r" : "0x28ec2e7d544ad737ce7ee4c7d756f00335a764451b5036b44a5bd06cf50262af",
    "s" : "0x1d62168d50945e7457d74c095ccca0fbcafb6e5f86d30d1725fad089d1a4c435",
    "to" : "0xfdd8bd58115ffbf04e47411c1d228ecc45e93075",
    "transactionIndex" : "0x0",
    "type" : "0x0",
    "v" : "0x15e0a",
    "value" : "0x0"
 }
```

#### Type 0 not eth compatible with fee currency

```diff
 {
    "blockHash" : "0x3cd3ee79cd8e1a97e8979ee4d896256a5e369d6c7e3f66e631c8387f561bbbe8",
    "blockNumber" : "0x16b8ef1",
    "ethCompatible" : false,
    "feeCurrency" : "0x874069fa1eb16d44d622f2e0ca25eea172369bc1",
+   "chainId" : "0xaef3",
    "from" : "0x0ac70692e0146522dd89dbf99831beaddcd57e8c",
    "gas" : "0x31e9e",
    "gasPrice" : "0x464abf343",
    "hash" : "0x86ba696a70eaf0f973313b0877f611f6500d9673eb51952a4a99c3200af0d249",
    "input" : "0xe1d6a...00000",
    "nonce" : "0x1",
    "r" : "0xb3fdfa10b8faaf1642e7e6e7c04f8e1d3051e61a4e79c4da1bb1f112e72607d2",
    "s" : "0x6114be273d1dcb45e485a8f7731666e3c36bfde385c8b47439c92b92d8ceb47f",
    "to" : "0x874069fa1eb16d44d622f2e0ca25eea172369bc1",
    "transactionIndex" : "0x0",
    "type" : "0x0",
    "v" : "0x15e09",
    "value" : "0x0"
 }
 ```

#### Type 2 (dynamic fee transaction)

```diff
 {
    "accessList" : [],
    "blockHash" : "0x5b77a681e7ff2fc015e074ece54877c50a6ed1e093cc76aabb109846e4544420",
    "blockNumber" : "0x16b8f3f",
    "chainId" : "0xaef3",
    "from" : "0x48cc4c4133cbf40def64b95b002d4ee4d24df846",
    "gas" : "0x1ff04",
    "gasPrice" : "0x1a13b8600",
    "hash" : "0x169500202b491733092159a496f535a9364f69d4059b9b26f39ea8896364ab26",
    "input" : "0xa87a2...00068",
    "maxFeePerGas" : "0x1dcd65000",
    "maxPriorityFeePerGas" : "0x77359400",
    "nonce" : "0x6779",
    "r" : "0xe76c97eb3184a45d96563bfeca470e9c5f4410f6815a81e1df42ecc2f84d9f7c",
    "s" : "0x550fede7177a20024a76cc02dc5fbd6cdefa163ff861441cd9617afceee824",
    "to" : "0x4330b35a355c24ac8e544ade2d531050b5b9be7b",
    "transactionIndex" : "0x0",
    "type" : "0x2",
    "v" : "0x1",
    "value" : "0x0",
+   "yParity" : "0x1"
 }
```

#### Type 123 (Celo dynamic fee transaction v2)

```diff
 {
    "accessList" : [],
    "blockHash" : "0x9abe488547e2e3195dc6e69fbf7e378056f98b3608b69309ef99c358a825cf37",
    "blockNumber" : "0x16b8f03",
    "chainId" : "0xaef3",
    "feeCurrency" : "0x874069fa1eb16d44d622f2e0ca25eea172369bc1",
    "from" : "0x06502700eac7123676a7332ba2015dffba021af6",
    "gas" : "0x1ec78",
    "gasPrice" : null,
    "hash" : "0xbe98d102295d6a5c7a26487a6ed7a5d2278cc30c2c8fb065f46bb78a6258090e",
    "input" : "0xe1d6a...00000",
    "maxFeePerGas" : "0x21b83c7d5",
    "maxPriorityFeePerGas" : "0x59eb4bf9",
    "nonce" : "0x1f9b",
    "r" : "0x68940dd91c0574638344927b53015752c78bc9cf67387f0d0c1f6d22559eeec3",
    "s" : "0x412aa02bd215cd0353dd1ffa1f99bbe2ee218e9e7ae3c5b462a568b705534f46",
    "to" : "0x874069fa1eb16d44d622f2e0ca25eea172369bc1",
    "transactionIndex" : "0x1",
    "type" : "0x7b",
    "v" : "0x1",
    "value" : "0x0",
+   "yParity" : "0x1"
 }
```
